Hi Team, I am looking at the UIC credit default/approval and there are so many published analysis using that dataset. 
If we are heading to the same direction, I am worried that we will be judged at a higher standard due to the topic's popularity. 
I found these mixed data set regarding 6 types of loan process can be analyzed similarly but less popular in kaggle. 

https://github.com/oneapi-src/loan-default-risk-prediction ( the analysis)
https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/laotse/credit-risk-dataset ( the data set- 32k row, 12 variables)
- age, income, home-ownership,employment lenght, loan intent, loan grade, loan amount, loan interest rate, percent of income, credit history length. 

OBJECTIVE/PROBLEM (5 points)
    Project Title: Predicting consumer credit risk 
    
    Background Information on chosen project topic: 
    
Accessing to credit is a key element in personal finance. During the last decade, with the widespread of internet and growth of technology, lenders are developing and optimizing machine learning models to minimize the risk of default and increase their ROI. Thus end user has been subject to certain "standard" in order to access those loans. We are advised to maintain good credit, make stable income and keep our debt ratio low to be qualified for loan. Are those factors good enough for lenders to evaluate whether the loan will be default? 
(https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/laotse/credit-risk-dataset)

    Problem Statement (clear and concise statement explaining purpose of your analysis and investigation): 
    
Using the given dataset, we want to determine factors that are significant indicators of default risk and whether these factors are the same given variety of loan types( loan_intent : 6 types). Based on these factors, we would like to build a model to predict the probability of default for each types of applicant. 

State your Primary Research Question (RQ):
Credit risk can be evaluated based on 

Add some possible Supporting Research Questions (2-4 RQs that support problem statement): 
1.	
2.	

Business Justification: (Why is this problem interesting to solve from a business viewpoint? Try to quantify the financial, marketing or operational aspects and implications of this problem, as if you were running a company, non-profit organization, city or government that is encountering this problem.)




DATASET/PLAN FOR DATA (4 points)
Data Sources (links, attachments, etc.): 


Data Description (describe each of your data sources, include screenshots of a few rows of data): 



Key Variables: (which ones will be considered independent and dependent? Are you going to create new variables? What variables do you hypothesize beforehand to be most important?)


APPROACH/METHODOLOGY (8 points)
Planned Approach (In paragraph(s), describe the approach you will take and what are the models you will try to use? Mention any data transformations that would need to happen. How do you plan to compare your models? How do you plan to train and optimize your model hyper-parameters?))







Anticipated Conclusions/Hypothesis (what results do you expect, how will you approach lead you to determining the final conclusion of your analysis) Note: At the end of the project, you do not have to be correct or have acceptable accuracy, the purpose is to walk us through an analysis that gives the reader insight into the conclusion regarding your objective/problem statement




What business decisions will be impacted by the results of your analysis? What could be some benefits?




PROJECT TIMELINE/PLANNING (2 points)
Project Timeline/Mention key dates you hope to achieve certain milestones by:




Appendix (any preliminary figures or charts that you would like to include): 
